Meeting Summary: The meeting discusses the ARKA project, its potential utility, and the need to connect with the DDOC and other stakeholders. The conversation also touches on funding, project phases, and the importance of clarifying requirements and costs.

Speaker 1: We have to see the utility of what we're doing before they jump into the baby's bath water. And I know it's with PACAF, Phil, but I'm also thinking it would be probably worthwhile talking with the DDOC over there, the Deployment Distribution Operations Center at INDOPACOM. Do you guys have any connections there, Josh or you? I could ask. A lot of friends over in J4L have gone over there, and I can just be like, hey, do you guys know anyone?

Speaker 2 (Phil): Yeah, because I think – I see them as like a customer for this. And PACAF, anytime they move, they're going to be talking with the DDOC, I'm assuming. Yeah. Josh, you could also ask the INDOPACOM LNO that Transcom has out there. That's fair. I'm just dropping a note to Walt real fast, and I'll shoot a note to the LNO. But essentially, just so I'm tracking, we're looking for someone in the PD doc that can talk to about the ARKA project at large.

Speaker 1: Are you referring to – okay, sorry. Go ahead, Phil. I wasn't sure. Is this where you're talking about the MSC contact specifically, Mr. Hunt, or something else? Oh, anyone that I need to talk to. Anyone that I need to talk to. At INDOPACOM. For the PD doc. It was brought up that we need to talk to PD doc. So that's INDOPACOM. I think that's the air piece of it.

Speaker 3 (Lou): Yeah, well I would think if you went to the LNO and said hey, this is the utility, and at the DD doc, he could then expand that to their air, land, and sea components, like PACAF, which is already on board, whoever the PACOM, the MSC counterpart is there, that type of stuff, because that would serve a lot of utility. And then worst case, again, besides the money going to Jessica Hiroko, she could also tell you who those people are.

Speaker 1: Yeah, that's Lou, you took the words out of my mouth. Yeah, I did a stint at the CD doc, and that's where I worked for Abril and um Phil, but uh each combatant command has one of those, and they're the boss. That's where, well, for their region, um, I mean, ultimately, like Transcom is the boss when it comes to moving strategic lift assets.

Speaker 2 (Phil): So, yeah, so it'd be great to connect with the DDoC guys on that. Josh, I got a question. How do you, what's the connection with like the service components? You know, like the Marine Corps has its own organic, where did he go? Or Lou, maybe you know the answer to this. Connecting with the – oh, Josh had to drop.

Speaker 3 (Lou): Okay, you know, like when the Marine Corps flies C-130s, do they need to coordinate with the DDOCS or Transcom? This is something I probably should know, but I don't. When they own it, as opposed to requesting an aircraft from PACAF or from AMC.

Speaker 1: Well, I'm not into those DDOCs, but I assume that they have the visibility of what flies in the theater, so they're not confusing things. You know, we specifically provide, we're sort of the mobility lift providers. We provide C-17s and those type of things to the different theaters, so they have those that they're in combatant command of. But they also have the service assets in there. And it wouldn't make sense to me that they wouldn't have visibility of what's flying in there. Otherwise, they'd have too many accidents, so it wouldn't work.

Speaker 2 (Phil): But I've never been in one of those DDOCs. But we have that visibility, so I'm sure they do. Yeah, I think that's how we had it. We had aircraft that AFSCENT owned, like down in Qatar and elsewhere, where they actually – was it 8th Air – I forget which Air Force number it is, but they actually owned it. But then there was the AMC aircraft that were coming over from the States, C-17s and so forth, that would rotate through.

Speaker 3 (Lou): Yeah, so we saw a lot of those, and the commercial stuff that we – the charter aircraft and the ones doing the ring routes around Iraq and so forth, which I think this tool would be great for those too, for contract aircraft that are flying in support of PACAF missions or Indo-PACOM missions?

Speaker 1: Yeah, there's nothing. I was an old ship scheduler in the old days in the Navy. I used to schedule every ship to whatever deployment, home port or port visits, exercises, shipyards, wherever they went. The only thing I didn't schedule was the aircraft carrier or the subs, but everything else I scheduled. And so we always look for opportunities to leverage current assets to test new technologies.

Speaker 3 (Lou): That's just a routine thing. Or bury the dead or whatever else they have to do, right? Yeah, no, understood. Yeah, I like the idea of getting into the DDoC so that all the different, like you said, air, land, and sea can take a look at it and play with it. But I'm probably going to loop in. Phil, I think we've already connected with Lieutenant Colonel Kevin Wheeler. He's at MARFOR PAC in the G4, because it would be good to bring the service component G4s in, you know, because – and then under the service components, you have the actual operating forces.

Speaker 2 (Phil): So, for the Marine Corps, it's 1MEF and 3MEF, One MEF is in Camp Pendleton, Marine Expeditionary Force. I spell my acronyms. And then 3 MEF, 3rd Marine Expeditionary Force, is out in Okinawa. U.S. Army Pacific has 25th Infantry Division there in Hawaii. And then 4th Infantry Division are their operational units. So those are the folks that are actually going to get on the aircraft.

Speaker 1: So there's a connection point between Transcom, the service component, and then the operating units that are actually getting on the aircraft. Like when we went to Afghanistan, for instance, our OPSO got the TIPFID notification saying, hey, here's when you guys have to be available to load. Here's how many seats you have on the C-17 or whatever we're flying on.

Speaker 2 (Phil): So I think it'd be good to connect those dots once that project gets started with the Interpaycom G4X folks, have some connectivity with the service components. I mean, I look forward to all of that happening. Right now, my biggest concern is how do we push through these two small contracts?

Speaker 3 (Lou): The and, and first of all, Mr. Bernstein, are we undershooting this, like if it's 650k, do we need to revise the SOW to something bigger, so that it's funded, because if I'm keeping a, if, when I hear something like 650k, I'm not seeing dollar signs, I'm seeing more responsibility, which means that if I'm expected to provide larger results than are currently promised in the existing SOW.

Speaker 2 (Phil): W. If I'm getting, call it phase one funding with phase two expectations, then do we need to revise this? Are we okay as is? I know I'm throwing you a lot of things at the, you know, you're at the final yard lines of retirement here.

Speaker 3 (Lou): So, we're supporting EndoPaycom's Ralph project, Rapid, it used to be called Rapid Aircraft, whatever it was, handheld thing, but we're going to use, we agreed to use, she's changed, and she's going to use ARKA, and whatever capabilities she wants to deliver. I asked her, do you need extra money for this, and so she comes by and says I need extra money because we expanded from aircraft to do ships and other things.

Speaker 1: Then we'd look at adding more money in. A little tougher to do when we get it late in 26 here, easier to do out in 27, real easy to do in 28. But we're looking at delivering capabilities now. So if you're able to convince Jessica or Roka, what additional things, and that's something they want, and you say, here's what it costs, then she'll come and ask us.

Speaker 2 (Phil): So, she, she has to make that determination, uh, because we're still doing, uh, an order, so I, we can comply with the FAR, you know, I'm not the person who decides to go out and do three bids, single thing, or whatever. I expect the organization gets that money to make that call.

Speaker 3 (Lou): So, they've already decided that, you know, we helped update that, what they were doing was probably a little outdated, found them a better customer, okay, which is probably more than I've done for any other project so far in 20 plus years I've been here.

Speaker 2 (Phil): But it was the right thing to do, and so now she's got, now she's got the good customer, now when you look at what she's expecting from you, you got to make sure you give her some more realistic cost of what need to say, hey, here's the bare minimum, if you want this type of demonstration, this capability, you know, you can either get an ice cream, a scoop of ice cream, where you get a scoop of ice cream with sprinkles and chocolate syrup and whipped cream and a cherry on it.

Speaker 3 (Lou): It depends on what dessert she wants. Yeah, it's usually the other way around here, Phillip, as far as it's normally Jessica, the user has the requirement, and they're looking for funds. Now we have the people actually with the funds that are saying, hey, let's get that, so done.

Speaker 2 (Phil): Yeah, it's an interesting – it should be easier than most cases, actually, with Lou's generous support here. Well, remember, it's not my money. I just make sure that we're getting the best use for the taxpayer. I'm just a shuffler of funds.

Speaker 3 (Lou): Are there other customers that you support in this space, Lou? Uh, uh, you know, it's, we have, we have other customers, well, we generally almost every project I do is co-funded by somebody, case of Ralph, it's not okay, uh, so, uh, that's a rare thing, but normally we have other customers that are doing stuff, sometimes, uh, we're the sole fund of the first year or two, then other customers decide, oh, this is a good thing, we become something like what used to be called a JCTD, now it's called a DIA project, to make it more holistic for the entire community, and drive it that way.

Speaker 1: It all depends where it is. So, who are the customers for Ralph? Right now, for me, my customer is INDOPACOM. Is there just Jessica or are there other possible users of the technology?

Speaker 3 (Lou): Well, I mean, yeah, well, they want, this is, so I would, you know, if we demonstrate something that's in the theater, it helps, you know, so I've done back in OEI, operation during freedom, that type of stuff, we did stuff in CENTCOM, then it got applied to the rest of the DOD.

Speaker 2 (Phil): When they had problems in UConn or whatever, Transcom spent money there, and helped them do internal forward bridging and movement for the Army. It now being adopted for elsewhere. So, when we did stuff in Indo, in the days, how we get visibility of coalition movement requirements, that became a program of record.

Speaker 3 (Lou): I wound up at Transcom, and we owned it. Okay, whatever. So, the rest of DOD can now get visibility of all of our coalition partners, and what we move.

Speaker 2 (Phil): So, this is a thing that, with Transcom's new contested logistics charter type requirements, as court and attached to transform the way we do global projection and sustainment of the warfighter, I would think that we would have a significant role in shaping that requirement through the various boards, like the Condescended Logistics Capability Portfolio Management Team, through the media program, through all kinds of other stuff, to try to bring to fruition, hey, I've got a solution here, and then we can sort of mandate changes.

Speaker 1: I mean, we're not the owner of it, but work the changes for the Department of War, and policy, and procedures, and et cetera, et cetera. And so, in this case, it might be an app on a Transcom web page that people could leverage out there to go do stuff.

Speaker 2 (Phil): I mean, that's how it would go. Do you know who the contested logistics portfolio manager is? Is that like what they're on? Well, it's the director of Joint Staff J4.

Speaker 3 (Lou): But, you know, and they're supposed to – initially, they didn't have any co-coms on. I said it's a bad idea. So, I think they're making it a tri-chair, where TransCon is going to be one of those three members.

Speaker 1: But we've got to first get the ConLog report out to Congress, which is in December. Okay. Well, Greg can help track that down, I think.

Speaker 2 (Phil): So, yeah, so we have a ConLog separate team here in 06, and a bunch of 4505s, and a few other people working our piece. I told them they got to really take those people, and put them TDY up in Washington, D.C., so they can be all at the meetings, and make stuff happen, because by phone, it just doesn't work.

Speaker 3 (Lou): But, you know, I'm only an old guy getting ready to leave. I don't know how much advice they take from me. I just throw my two cents in where I think it's needed, even though it's not welcomed, a lot of times. A lot of pennies left on the floor when I leave a room.

Speaker 2 (Phil): Phil, you don't look very happy. You just try to absorb this junkola? No.

Speaker 1: What are we going to do without you, Lou? Well, you know, the problem with the Department of War, and the Department of Defense, before that, and government whole, we're not very good at providing a consistent, agreed-upon message to industry partners, because there's lots of talent out there, that can make things a lot better for us.

Speaker 3 (Lou): So, we shoot ourselves in the foot, and we do that based on the way money is awarded to people, and money is power in the government. So, no one wants to fix the budget process too hard. Department of War has never been an honorable organization. You know, it's not a good way to run business.

Speaker 2 (Phil): And the people like yourself, who have a team, who, besides making money for your own product, you're really interested in trying to see the capability out there. I think you get more satisfaction out of seeing your technology go out there, grow, and support people. I think you do.

Speaker 3 (Lou): Then, personally, the money that comes in, but that's a close second. But you'd rather see, you know, it's like sending your kid to college. You'd like to see him graduate. That's okay, but you'd rather see him get a job.

Speaker 1: Dave knows. Dave's laughing at that one. It is what it is. Yeah. Okay, so when I spoke to Jess last week, Mr. Bernstein, she said nobody wants to carry water on this project. So, have things changed since Monday?

Speaker 2 (Phil): It was actually Monday I spoke to her. Well, if no one wants to carry water on that project, then she should be canceling that project with Transcom.

Speaker 1: Right, well, she said, for the phase one, it's more difficult than for the phase two. Yeah, I'm not sure what phases are, because I don't have the details. I never got a revised Ralph proposal from her to describe these phases.

Speaker 2 (Phil): So, I assume there must be incremental things she's trying to do in that plan, and when she gives that incremental, those phase things, if there's additional dollars associated with it.

Speaker 3 (Lou): Oh, man, she shaved those legs, those things, those things look, look, look, near bald, come on now, no me.

Speaker 1: Yeah, are you talking about these? No way, these are, these are, sorry, no, take my, take my word for it.

Speaker 2 (Phil): Do you see this arm, it's as hairy as this arm. Okay, it's just loud over here, turning this down.

Speaker 3 (Lou): I got my folks visiting from, yeah, so you know, when she gives me some, she gives me some updated phase proposal for Ralph, I'll understand what you mean by phase one, phase two. I don't know what that means.

Speaker 1: So, I created an SOW that shows how things are going to be at the first phase, and how things are going to look at the second phase. Does that suffice? Does that SOW include cost? It does.

Speaker 2 (Phil): Okay, all she told me was, we should be able to do with the money you have. You already have a sign. I said, it's okay. I said, if you need more, you've got to let me know. So, she hasn't shared that with me yet, so I don't know what that is.

Speaker 3 (Lou): Okay, should we loop? And I'm sorry for smattering your calendar with meetings, but should we just have like a quick follow-up call with Jessica, and just iron this out? Because I'm more confused than before I hopped on this call.

Speaker 2 (Phil): Sure, anything that helps undo confusion is good. Okay, you can try to set a thing up, where you say, hey, Mr. Bernstein, confused too, as well, he wants to make sure that we, we were talking to him, he