Meeting Summary: The meeting discusses the status of several projects, including the MSC and PACAF projects, and the challenges of getting them approved and funded. The team is seeking guidance and support to move these projects forward.

Speaker 1: On the MSC side, we need to push through. It's been months. The other two are on PACAF, one of which is the mobile deployment of intermodal transportation. The other one is just like the standard desktop. It seems, for whatever reason, the mobile deployment one is going to be easier to push through than the standard. And neither of those are even in the contracting office phases because it's on just Irohoka right now, and she hasn't gotten it into the right hands yet, and it's been a month for that one too.

My understanding for the PACAF project is that because the way PACAF and AMC work, AMC typically leads the way on any sort of like software. However, it's getting to the point where I needed a stakeholder where someone like, you know, gives us a requirement and there needs to be like a five-year horizon. I'm not comfortable doing that right now, I want to just do a pilot. I want to get this pilot authorized just so we can get a small stipend to work on this several months to gather data, several months to really form a solid foundation and scope for what a requirement would actually look like. Right now, we could promise the sun and the moon and the stars, but that's an over promise, and I don't want to do that. I want to be able to give something that's tangible and points to success and can shine some light at the end of the tunnel of what we can ultimately build.

So, just to wrap it up, I need help, team. I need help to, you know, it's a classic tale of like, hey, I need somebody to vouch for us, but need someone on the AMC side for at least PACAF, and then if we have any folks on the contracting offices at MSC to push for that too. So, it's like it's three things, but really two lanes because the two that print and pack out for their own, and the one in MSC is its own. So, we'd love to lean on your guidance here, sir. So, Phil, and I'll probably hand it off to Lou here in a second.

Speaker 2 (Phil): To be 100 percent honest, we talked yesterday, didn't get a chance to open stuff up until literally right now because it's been absolutely insane. I think this is something that we can look at, and I can work with Lou to identify if there's anyone at AMC we can put some pressure on, and then I can see if I still have N10 contacts for MSC and say what's the deal because I used to work for MSC for about a decade. Is that fair? That's more than fair. That's highly appreciated. Yes, thank you.

Speaker 3 (Lou): Roger. Lou, can you add anything? I mean, we'll see who we talk to. Right. So, my understanding is AMC shied away. They're trying to do whatever changes they want to do in I-codes. However, what Phil is talking about is that project, it's going to be called, it was called ROUTH, they probably rename it something else. But that project, PACOM has agreed to shift from the previous approach they were using to leveraging ARCA, and Transcom funding is $650,000 in 26, so now that the budget's passed and the money's finally here, that money should, I don't think it's left the door, but that's going out soon, and I forget what it goes like for two years or something like that. I remember what Ralph is off the top of my head, but it's probably goes for two years. It's probably a $2 million or so project.

Speaker 1: And so to me, and I understand the PACAF guys, we're going to be doing that with the support from some other folks. You know, is that not your understanding of Phil? I was not aware of that, the other folks. I mean, is there a way for ARCA to insert itself in support? Because, I mean, at the very least, when it comes... Yeah, they're using ARCA, but I think they had Booz Allen Hamilton, and I think they're going to use one of those contractors to sort of do the work, make sure IndoPaycom stuff is represented with ARCA as a team member, because they don't have the bodies to go do all this stuff.

Speaker 4 (Dave Madden): I've certainly heard of approaches like this because the military, they like to reach out any way they can to touch the people that they want to connect to. And they usually take the path of least resistance. And when a path exists versus one that doesn't, sometimes even if the existing one costs a lot more, i.e. pass-through fees by BAH, they'll take that path just to get it done. So, from a timing, and apologies if I'm being selfish on this call, but from a timing and funding perspective, what does that mean for ARCA? Mr. Bernstein, what do you suggest we do?

Speaker 5 (Mr. Bernstein): I was just checking up. So, the Ralph project is funded $650,000 in 26, $627,000 in 27, and $628,000 in 28. And then I asked them if they needed additional funds. They said, no, they could work within those things. And then they going to instead of the approach they were going to take, they going to use the ARCA approach, because the deputy commander was interested in having a, you know, they were worried about in the field, the people are not able to properly load aircraft, et cetera, and get them out, you know, out without Air Force loaders there on hand. And the deputy commander said, well, what about small crafts coming over the shore and trucks and those other things? And so, after she saw your demonstration, realized that your platform is a lot more, you know, a lot more flexible, so she said they could pursue that method, and I said okay, and she said, I think we can do it with the resources we have.

Speaker 1: So, my hope is after we do that stuff and do the demonstration, then we show utility, then those people who are only stuck on their day job, like AMC, etc., they're only interested in port of debarkation to port of embarkation or vice versa, and last tactical model is not really something Air Mobility Command gets into unless it's aerial delivery, okay? And so, but we have to worry about people on the point end and how that support goes that way.

Speaker 2 (Phil): I can't give you any more than Lou, because Lou's on point with this stuff. But is there something that we can try to answer? Because we're still trying to figure out trade winds, because, I mean, that's fairly a new process for US Transcom. You know, it's that DOD-owned marketplace for this type of stuff. So, it's a thing that I'm actually talking to AQ about.

Speaker 4 (Dave Madden): Yeah, all you need is the contracting officer, and they're the ones that deals with trade winds. Like you guys should be completely seamless for you. One would think. Correct, just like I mean, we MIPR 95 percent of everything. We get to some other organization, who then sits and applies it, puts it on some contract, and second-hand, we eventually, we're still responsible for its execution. But it's really tough to do that, and that's the way we've done projects for 20-plus years. Unless it's specifically inside of Transcom and our own AQs putting it on contract, that's a little bit different. But the only thing they put on contract for me right now is the three contractors who support the RDT program. Everything else is put on contract by some external agency.

Speaker 2 (Phil): Yeah, sorry, we're kind of showing our butts a little bit just with new processes that are coming up, been trying to get the change management for other people to see that there are other things going on. So, I actually have a meeting with some of these folks at Acquisition here next week, I can try to bring this up, like how do we expedite this? Because, yes, you're right, it sounds pretty easy, but we are not the most flexible organization in the world.

Speaker 5 (Mr. Bernstein): Okay, so Dave, you, Phil, Greg, someone's going to reach out to Jessica Rocha and Prada to see where we're going, right? Yeah, because we're ready to send the money. But she tells me that it would take maybe two or three days for us to send the money because they just have to put it in a member, get people to certify it, and send it. Yeah.

Key Action Items:
- Reach out to Jessica Rocha and Prada to determine where to send the money
- Identify a contracting officer to work with trade winds
- Follow up on the status of the PACAF project and the use of ARCA
- Explore ways to expedite the process and get the projects moving forward
- Schedule a meeting with Acquisition to discuss change management and new processes